Hello and welcome back. In this new practical, we are going to try using Claude Code instead of
Codex. And we are going to use Claude Code together with the new skill which we created earlier,
which is the Frida binary analysis skill. And this time, we are going to try to solve
crackme2. And crackme2, if you remember, is a GUI crackme, so let us run this now and see how it is.
So it asks for an input serial number. And if I enter one, two, three, four, five, six
And click the check button, I get the message wrong serial.
So let us now run Claude Code. However, if you do not have a Claude subscription, it is fine.
You can use Codex to do this. So since I have a Claude Desktop subscription, I can use Claude Code.
So let me just log in first. I am now logged into
Claude, and I will go to my top-left corner.
I will select the Code tab and I will create a new session.
And now I will ask it
To read the skill file.
So I will copy the skill file path
by right-clicking the Frida
Binary analysis skill, select copy as path, and I come back down here and I say,
Read this skill file. I paste the path to the file that I want Claude to read, then
Analyze this GUI crackme. And I give it the path of the GUI crackme, which is
Over here under my crackme folder. I right-click the crackme tool, copy as
Path, and then paste it in here. Analyze this GUI crackme to find out the
functions that compare the input string to some constant string. And if the string
does not match, it will show the message wrong serial. Find out the parameter
of the string comparison functions to which it compares the input
String with. Then explain how it works. Use Frida tools to solve this challenge.
So this is the prompt that I will give to Claude Code. And then I will select the
Highest model which is available, which is at time of recording Opus 4.8, and
Over here I select the effort to extra high so that it can think more in depth.
And now I will click go. Before that, I should say, if you are unsure of what I
Want, don't guess, don't assume, ask me. And then I click go. So over here, I click
Always allow. Maybe I will select auto mode so that it will always approve
Instead of asking me for permission every time. So now I'm in auto mode. Let's
Close the sidebar. It reports that Frida is working, and it is now extracting the strings
and looking at what string comparison APIs it imports. It is now looking for the functions
And it has found two functions: GetWindowText and string compare. And it is now looking
for UI message strings and any embedded wide strings. Wide strings are Unicode strings,
32-byte wide strings. Each character is 2-byte wide. And it has found it. The UTF-16 strings
Include this CM291A2026, congrats, wrong string, and so on. So it confirms that the expected serial is
almost certainly CM291A2026. So now it is writing a script, a Python driver that
Spawns the GUI app, and it has spawned the GUI app. So I will allow this. I click
enable computer use, turn on computer use, continue. Computer use gives Claude Code
access to your PC so that it can run commands on your PC. So here it asks for
permission. Click allow for this one. Allow for this session. So it has input the
wrong serial and got the wrong serial message. It is now checking the log files
And finally, after some tests, it gave me the pseudocode for the solution and
And now, it even launch another GUI app, the crackme GUI app, and enter the correct serial and confirm that it shows congrats.
Quite impressive.
As you can see, here it inputs the serial for me.
I mean, it clicks the check button for me and confirms that the congrats message showed.
And so now it confirms that the GUI shows congrats for this serial number.
And the beautiful thing is that it even shows the pseudocode here: GetWindowText
reads input and then compares the input string with the
Constant, which is the real serial, so that we can understand what's happening.
So it seems to be working, and now it is running further tests. But I don't think I
Need to do that anymore since Claude already successfully solved it. But let's wait and
See what it's trying to do. So it is running confirmation, entering the wrong serial, and it got
The wrong serial message. And now it enters the correct serial, and this time it prints the
congrats message. Very impressive. So this is the complete definitive proof captured live via Frida.
And now it is doing the cleanup processes.
And now it gives the final analysis, the full analysis, which you can read here.
The string comparison function is lsStringCompare.
It is called inside the program's CheckSerialRoutine.
The parameter that it is comparing with is this serial number, which is the correct serial
number.
And here, it goes into great detail on how it proved it using Frida: step 1, step 2, and so on.
And it's so detailed. Look at that.
And it even offers to patch the string compare return at runtime to force acceptance of any serial.
Wow, this is very impressive.
It can even do that.
But I don't think we need to go that far.
Suffice it to say, this demonstrates that using Claude Code together with Frida, we can also solve
this GUI crackme easily. So this shows how useful it is to use AI agents together with
the binary analysis tools like Frida, for example, to solve crackme. If you are doing
this manually, you probably won't be able to figure all this out on your own.
How to write the scripts and so on.
But using Claude Code, it is so easily done.
And we could also have used Codex and achieved the same results.
So that's all for this video.
Thank you for watching.